Tam carut is an assistant professor of
public policy at The doar Institute for
Graduate Studies he's with me here in
the studio welcome
back I mean another day of devastating
strikes I mean I think we need to pause
here and really take stock of what we're
looking at we've all seen things over
the past month that we can't
unsee um attacks on two unra schools the
expulsion of hundreds of people from the
AL shifer Hospital some of them so
critically injured they literally have
to be wheeled down the road in their
hospital beds all the while the
International Community are redundant
they can't do anything and we're in this
vacuum and Israel now seems to be ready
to exploit that vacuum with a new phase
of the conflict possibly n of course I
mean Israel has a free hand to do
whatever it wants in Gaza it has a green
light from from Big Powers especially
from the US from its Western allies so
there is no surprise about about the
current situation in Gaza and the the
horrible massacres we're seeing and from
the beginning Israeli official
statements were clear about this they
say Gaza North stage one then stage two
it will be the the south of Gaza Etc so
it's it's they're literally implementing
what they have promised what they have
the key goals of their of of this war on
Gaza and the thing is now we just have
seen a shift in in some International
statements coming from the west from the
US asking Israel to restrain its uh it's
its uh its Force you know and and the
way it's conducting its War but it it's
just it's just talk there's nothing no
real mechanisms to restrain Israel from
from what it's from the crimes it's
committing on Gaza so sadly I just I
fear and I fear that it's it's going to
get worse I mean for for gazans for
Palestinians in Gaza and and and I fear
that the transfer scenario is currently
being under the making I mean emptying
Gaza and the north from its residence
almost 1.1 million pushing them to the
south at the same time in parallel
starting a military operation in the
South around theunis area eventually the
2 million 2.3 million population of Gaza
will be cornered in a small part of Gaza
in the South near the Egyptian borders
and what's next I mean it's it's going
to be an explosion I mean an exodus and
then Egypt and Arab countries should
should start really worrying because
Israel so far is creating all the
conditions for a big transfer to happen
at a sudden let's look at some of the
evidence to suggest that Kan Unis is
next we've heard from our correspondent
on the ground saying people are already
being told to leave Western carudas
leaflets have being dropped by Israeli
forces for for several uh days now this
also from former Israeli Prime Minister
edmer in a recent interview he said if
you had asked me a few weeks ago I would
have said KH yunice is the command
center for Hamas that is the long held
security opinion on Gaza I mean this
whole idea that the north was the
Strategic aim of the Israeli military
just doesn't seem to be true at all the
whole of the Gaza Strip seems to be the
objetive of course I mean for them I
mean this is their golden opportunity
especially with the complicity of the
International Community Arab countries
are are not there up to the up to the
massacres and the crimes happening to
Gaza with their weak positions the
positions they have taken their
unability to to exercise any pressure on
on their allies in the ways of
International Community so for Israel I
mean like yes why not I mean you follow
Israeli media and what you hear from
commentators politicians it's sick ing I
mean it's it's they're they're they're
very obvious and clear about the
transfer plans some of them are even
speaking or or talking about a post uh a
postwar Gaza where they have building
new settlements or new beaches whatever
it's it's for I mean they talk about it
publicly it's not a secret anymore and
we should take everything that comes
from from their people there on media
and from the politicians very seriously
especially that the International
Community has Faith Palestinians and
Israel still has an upper hand and a
freehand to do whatever it wants in Gaza
what are the consequences of further
inaction by Regional players by Arab
states in the region do you think it's
it's it's going to spill over to their
own countries I mean I
mean Jordan Egypt I mean once let's I
mean God forbids if they're done with
Gaza and there is a transfer I mean how
would this transform into in in in in
Egypt you know Egypt's pos position you
know I mean Egypt has a six years war
war with Israel Over C liberating
and for them also the the transfer
scenario is a nightmare I mean
especially in sa if it happens in sa so
this could trigger a regional conflict
with Egypt the jordanians are very
nervous at the same time because once
the Israelis are done with Gaza this
right the radicalized Israeli Society is
very clear about also transferring
Palestinians and the West Bank so they
could start another phase of this war
you know so you never know it's like a
it's like a snowball but if if it's not
restrained now if there is no real
pressure and political economic pressure
on Israel and on on key Western arise to
Arab countries I think the Israelis have
an upper hand in in in doing whatever
they want and that's a problem and we
are the moment definitely not seeing
anybody apply enough pressure to see the
breaks put on by Israel tamama kud great
to hear your analysis thank you my
pleasure